---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - Progress in Programming Report
date: 2020-11-12
labels:
---
1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

I started with pretty much no programing skills but now I am able to create an entire website from scratch. 

2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I often forget codes and don't know what to do in certain situations. This can be solved with more practice, of course, and more research and experience. I'm also not doing very well with programming lingo at the moment, so more studying on that part would be good too.

3. I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.

For the last few WODs, I find that rather than not knowing what to do, I often do not understand what the instructions are asking me to do. I would attempt to understand it and try to do what it's asking, and then check with the screencast to make sure I am understanding the instructions correctly. 

4. The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
  
The labs feel similar to homework, which I think is essential to learning the material. They do confuse me at times, but I find reviewing the class recordings to be very helpful!

5. I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1). 

I think I would like more practice and understanding before I can say I am fully ready to work on the next stage.

6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

Would be nice if we're able to complete all the labs in class, rather than having to figure out parts we couldn't complete on our own. 

7. These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:

Screencasts are very helpful. It's really nice how I can go back and rewatch and review areas I am confused/unsure about. 
