---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
date: 2020-12-18
labels:
---

About the project:

1. What was accomplished in the project as compared to what was planned?

There were more that I wanted to accomplish, such as allowing users to edit their information (and perhaps even upload a profile image or select from limited selection of images). The coding for what was required ended up being a lot more confusing than I initially thought it would be, and changing my shop template was a lot more time consuming and difficult than I thought it would be.

2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

Users cannot edit their user information. After checking out, there is no personalized thank you message or disaplay of the invoice information. Session data does not have an expiration time. Not sure why, but when I tried to send an invoice to my @hawaii.edu email, I do not receive any email. However, when using an email with @gmail.com ending, I receive the email just fine.

3. What was your biggest project risk and how was it managed?

My biggest risk was using the shop template from Storenvy. It took a lot of eiditng before it was usable without all the extra add-ons that I would not be able to provide or know how to provide function to. In the end, it worked out alright. Although there's a constant error about social media that I don't know how to get rid of. 

4. What is your assessment of the overall quality of the system?

Although it's lacking a few fuctions, I think overall, the system does all the basics that it needs to do and functions fine. On a scale from 1 to 10, I think I would give it a 8.5. Some of the pages could use some editing appearance wise.

5. What is needed before this system can be placed into operation?

A way for users to edit their information, as well as a payment option and a place for the customer to their their address. Better security such as encryption of usernames and passwords.

6. Describe what you are most proud of about this project:

I am probably the most proud of getting the quantity data from the shop page to the cart. I struggled for a long time to get it to work and I was absolutely ecstatic when I finlly got it working.

7. Describe what you are least happy with this project:

The amount I struggled and how long it took was definitely not something I enjoyed. I was hoping to be able to finish before the 18th, but I ran into a lot of problems and had a lot more bugs than I thought I would have. Coding simply does not run as smoothly as I imagine it would go in my head. 

8. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. "I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization"):

I worked alone.
