---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint: Assignment #3
date: 2020-12-03
labels:
---

Checkpoint A: Describe your design for your site's shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.

I think I will be creating a separate page where users can view and edit their shopping cart. There will be a shopping cart icon in the navigation bar and the user can click on it to view it. The page will show all the items the user have in their cart and they can edit the numbers as needed. Then they can either return to the store to shop some more or go to the invoice page to finish their purchase.  


Checkpoint B: Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their keys) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will beused in $_SESSION.

I still need to finish lab 15 to understand sessions better, but I believe I'll be storing whatever data that I previously stored in the query string in the session. It would include the item name/type and the quantity that the user selected. 
 

Checkpoint C: How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?

I imagine I would be using similar methods as Assignment 2. If the user is not logged in, the page will redirect them to one that they can access or the login page. 


Checkpoint D: Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary):

Similar to how I coded the invoice page for A2, I will have the user's name show up in the navigation bar using the data in their session and/or user_data file. 
 

Checkpoint E: If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?

I will not be working with a partner.
 

Checkpoint F: How are you approching Assigment 3 differently than Aassignment 2?

I will be seeking help earlier on rather than struggling and wasting time on the code on my own. I will also make sure to understand my code more thoroughly before using them. 
